[Know the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program Application]
NSF-GRFP Purpose:
{
To help ensure the vitality and diversity of the U.S. scientific and engineering workforce: recognize and support outstanding graduate students; pursuing research-based PhDs in fields within NSF's mission; have demonstrated their potential for significant achievements in science and engineering research.
}
The Application Review Process:
{
Panelists evaluating GRFP applications may consider the following with respect to the Intellectual Merit Criterion: the potential of the applicant to advance knowledge based on a holistic analysis of the complete application, including the personal statement, relevant background, future goals, graduate research statement, strength of academic record, description of previous research experience or publication/presentations, and references.
Panelists may consider the following with respect to the Broader Impacts Criterion: the potential of the applicant for future broader impacts as indicated by personal experiences, professional experiences, educational experiences and future plans.
Intellectual Merit Criterion
Overall Assessment of Intellectual Merit: {}
Explanation to Applicant: {}
Broader Impacts Criterion
Overall Assessment of Broader Impacts: {}
Explanation to Applicant: {}
}
Homework:
{
Read all materials (a few times, without distractions). Prepare a task list with deadlines to perform the Executive Tasks then complete the tasks. Understand how application components and each item requested relate to the review criteria.
}
Proposed Field of Study: 
{
Pursuing NSF-supported STEM field*: Computer, Information Science, and Engineering (Comp/IS/Eng)
Field of Study 1: Comp/IS/Eng: Bioinformatics and Bio-inspired Computing
Field of Study 2: Comp/IS/Eng: Algorithms and Theoretical Foundations
Field of Study 3: Comp/IS/Eng: Formal Methods, Verification, and Programming Languages
Field of Study 4: Comp/IS/Eng: Scientific Computing
}
GRADUATE RESEARCH PLAN STATEMENT:
{	
Graduate Research Plan Statement
Present an original research topic that you would like to pursue in graduate school
Page limit - 2 PDF pages 
Describe the research idea, your general approach, as well as any unique resources that may be needed for accomplishing the research goal (i.e., access to national facilities or collections, collaborations, overseas work, etc.)
You may choose to include important literature citations
Address the potential of the research to advance knowledge and understanding within science as well as the potential for broader impacts on society
The research discussed must be in a field listed in the Solicitation (Section X, Fields of Study).
Proposed Research Title
The title should be brief, informative, scientifically or technically valid, intelligible to a scientifically or technically literate reader, and suitable for use in the public press
Describe in succinct terms your proposed research, reflecting the contents of your Graduate Research Plan Statement
Include a list of key words, and do not use abbreviations and chemical formulas (in 255 characters or less)
This title will be used for searching research topics using the key words you supply
Do not use curly brackets, {}, in your Proposed Research Title or Key Words.
}

**LIBRARY,INCLUDES,RESOURCES**
Author Credentials and Relevant Background, which consists of Academic, Professional, and Research Experience:
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/87c1f6a8ffa9b619768ff6fb01d07ccf0a650e19/General_CV.pdf
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/87c1f6a8ffa9b619768ff6fb01d07ccf0a650e19/Honors_Awards_Activities.pdf
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/87c1f6a8ffa9b619768ff6fb01d07ccf0a650e19/STEM_CV.pdf
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/27e4648a87d2c2e4495325a7251ccad6d559faf9/Unofficial_Transcript_Pre_Graduation.pdf
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/27e4648a87d2c2e4495325a7251ccad6d559faf9/EB_JUN_DRAFT_2022.pdf
Personal Page: https://github.com/yahriels
Personal Repository: https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/tree/181d70996b175c813c28770a361453c192fb5a06 
Library and Data Sources:
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/c0d7f1579999dda246f3036e315f89f204f79680/Personal_Statement_Draft.pdf
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/c0d7f1579999dda246f3036e315f89f204f79680/Statement_of_Grant_Purpose_Draft.pdf
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/181d70996b175c813c28770a361453c192fb5a06/Graduate%20Research%20Plan%20Statement.pdf
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/c0d7f1579999dda246f3036e315f89f204f79680/Statement_of_Objective_Draft.pdf
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/main/OG_Personal_Summary.pdf 
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/main/Writing_Sample_Draft.pdf 
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/main/Personal_Narrative_Concepts.pdf 
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/87c1f6a8ffa9b619768ff6fb01d07ccf0a650e19/Portfolio-Profile.pdf 
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/87c1f6a8ffa9b619768ff6fb01d07ccf0a650e19/General_CV.pdf
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/87c1f6a8ffa9b619768ff6fb01d07ccf0a650e19/Honors_Awards_Activities.pdf
https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels/blob/87c1f6a8ffa9b619768ff6fb01d07ccf0a650e19/STEM_CV.pdf
Resources:
https://publuu.com/flip-book/255279/603049
https://mitcommlab.mit.edu/broad/commkit/nsf-personal-statement/
https://mitcommlab.mit.edu/broad/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2016/09/Broad_CommKit_NSF_Personal_AAE1.png
https://mitcommlab.mit.edu/eecs/commkit/nsf-research-proposal/
https://mitcommlab.mit.edu/eecs/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2016/09/GRFP-research-statement-example-1-causal-inference.pdf
https://mitcommlab.mit.edu/eecs/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2016/09/GRFP-research-statement-example-2-hardware.pdf
References:
https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00306/full
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6056670/pdf/fpsyt-09-00306.pdf
https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fnagi.2015.00135/full
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4502359/pdf/fnagi-07-00135.pdf
https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rsif.2022.0079
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8941413/pdf/rsif.2022.0079.pdf
https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rsfs.2020.0056
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8464530/
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3937286/
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1178222618803076
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41537-022-00330-z
https://academic.oup.com/schizbullopen/article/3/1/sgac026/6547273
https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0282707
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/the-british-journal-of-psychiatry/article/neural-responses-to-dynamic-multimodal-stimuli-and-pathologyspecific-impairments-of-social-cognition-in-schizophrenia-and-depression/5C8764E6DF3362D43C349E24C0451D0B
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S000632231931707X
https://jnrbm.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12952-015-0030-z
https://neuro.psychiatryonline.org/doi/10.1176/jnp.2007.19.2.137

Sample Writings:
{
Title: Decoding the Neurobiological Landscape of Schizophrenia: A Multidisciplinary Approach Informed by Numbers, Shapes, and Prediction 
Abstract: Unraveling the complex neurobiological mechanisms of schizophrenia through a multidisciplinary approach that blends data analysis, fractal geometry, and dimensional analysis.
Title: Bleuler's Psychopathological Perspective on Schizophrenia Delusions: Towards New Tools in Psychotherapy Treatment
Abstract: The authors begin by addressing the historical evolution of the delusion concept and its
different approaches, focusing afterwards mainly on the work of Bleuler, who stressed
the proximity between delusions and the emotional life of patients with schizophrenia. I
Therefore, the present work intends to review the main aspects of the theory of delusion
formation in schizophrenia according to Bleuler’s psychopathological perspective. For
that purpose, first the role of delusions in the psychopathology of schizophrenia is
explored in a close relation with the Bleuler’s fundamental symptoms (Alogia, Autism,
Ambivalence, and Affect Blunting) nowadays known as negative symptoms. Then,
persecutory, grandiosity and sexual delusions in schizophrenia are described according
to the tension between logic and affects, as well as, internal conflict, schizoid features,
and auto-erotism as key psychopathological pathways. Thus, with this subjective
perspective, it is intended to highlight Bleuler’s psychopathological contribution to the
affective and meaningful causality of delusions in schizophrenia. The former might be
useful in the integration with other psychopathological phenomena (hallucinations and
negative symptoms) and new forms of research and therapeutic approaches in this
disorder that are complementary with the contemporary tendencies in psychopathology.
Keywords: affectivity, Bleuler, delusions, schizophrenia, psychopathology
Title: Fractality of sensations and the brain health: the theory linking neurodegenerative disorder with distortion of spatial and temporal scale-invariance and fractal complexity of the visible world
Abstract: The theory that ties normal functioning and pathology of the brain and visual system with
the spatial–temporal structure of the visual and other sensory stimuli is described for the
first time in the present study. The deficit of fractal complexity of environmental influences
can lead to the distortion of fractal complexity in the visual pathways of the brain and
abnormalities of development or aging. The use of fractal light stimuli and fractal stimuli
of other modalities can help to restore the functions of the brain, particularly in the elderly
and in patients with neurodegenerative disorders or amblyopia. Non-linear dynamics
of these physiological processes have a strong base of evidence, which is seen in
the impaired fractal regulation of rhythmic activity in aged and diseased brains. From
birth to old age, we live in a non-linear world, in which objects and processes with
the properties of fractality and non-linearity surround us. Against this background, the
evolution of man took place and all periods of life unfolded. Works of art created by man
may also have fractal properties. The positive influence of music on cognitive functions
is well-known. Insufficiency of sensory experience is believed to play a crucial role in the
pathogenesis of amblyopia and age-dependent diseases. The brain is very plastic in its
early development, and the plasticity decreases throughout life. However, several studies
showed the possibility to reactivate the adult’s neuroplasticity in a variety of ways. We
propose that a non-linear structure of sensory information on many spatial and temporal
scales is crucial to the brain health and fractal regulation of physiological rhythms.
Theoretical substantiation of the author’s theory is presented. Possible applications and
the future research that can experimentally confirm or refute the theoretical concept are
considered.
Keywords: fractal therapy, dynamical chaos, fractality of sensations, reactivation of brain plasticity, treatment
and rehabilitation, aging, neurodegenerative diseases, amblyopia
Title: Emergence of lump-like solitonic waves
in Heimburg–Jackson biomembranes
and nerves fractal model
Abstract: The aim of this study is to extend the soliton propagation model in biomembranes and nerves constructed by Heimburg and Jackson for the case of
fractal dimensions. Our analyses are based on the product-like fractal
measure concept introduced by Li and Ostoja-Starzewski in their attempt
to explore anisotropic fractal elastic media and electromagnetic fields. The
mathematical model presented in the paper is formulated for only a part
of a single nerve cell (an axon). The analytical and numerical envelop soliton
of this equation are reported. The results obtained prove the emergence of
lump-type solitonic waves in nerves and biomembranes. In particular,
these waves decay algebraically to the background wave in space direction.
This scenario is viewed as a particular class of rational localized waves
which are solutions of the integrable Ishimori I equation and the (2 + 1)
Kadomtsev–Petviashvili I equation. The effects of fractal dimensions are
discussed and were found to be significant to some extents.
Title: Anthroengineering: an independent
interdisciplinary field
Abstract: In recent decades, funding agencies, institutes and professional bodies have
recognized the profound benefits of transdisciplinarity in tackling targeted
research questions. However, once questions are answered, the previously
abundant support often dissolves. As such, the long-term benefits of these
transdisciplinary approaches are never fully achieved. Over the last several decades, the integration of anthropology and engineering through inter- and
multidisciplinary work has led to advances in fields such as design, human
evolution and medical technologies. The lack of formal recognition, however,
of this transdisciplinary approach as a unique entity rather than a useful tool
or a subfield makes it difficult for researchers to establish laboratories, secure
permanent jobs, fund long-term research programmes and train students in
this approach. To facilitate the growth and development and witness the
long-term benefits of this approach, we propose the integration of anthropology and engineering be recognized as a new, independent field known as
anthroengineering. We present a working definition for anthroengineering and
examples of how anthroengineering has been used. We discuss the necessity
of recognizing anthroengineering as a unique field and explore potential
novel applications. Finally, we discuss the future of anthroengineering,
highlighting avenues for moving the field forward.
Title: Neural basis of the visual working memory deficit in schizophrenia: merging evidence from fMRI and EEG
Abstract: Although people with schizophrenia (PSZ) exhibit robust and reliable deficits in working memory (WM) capacity, the neural processes that give rise to this impairment remain poorly understood. One reason for this lack of clarity is that most studies employ a single neural recording modality—each with strengths and weaknesses—with few examples of integrating results across modalities. To address this gap, we conducted a secondary analysis that combined data from an overlapping set of subjects in previously published electroencephalographic and functional magnetic resonance imaging studies that used nearly identical working memory tasks (visual change detection). The prior studies found similar patterns of results for both posterior parietal BOLD activation and suppression of the alpha frequency band within the EEG. Specifically, both signals exhibited abnormally shallow modulation as a function of the amount of information being stored in WM in PSZ. In the present study, both alpha suppression and posterior parietal BOLD activity increased as the number of items stored in WM increased. The magnitude of alpha suppression modulation was correlated with the magnitude of BOLD signal modulation in PSZ, but not in HCS. This finding suggests that the same illness-related biological processes constrain both alpha suppression and BOLD signal modulation as a function of WM storage in PSZ. The complementary strengths of these two techniques may thus combine to advance the identification of the processes underlying WM deficits in PSZ.
Keywords: EEG, fMRI, visual working memory, schizophrenia, alpha oscillations, event-related desynchronization, posterior parietal cortex
Title: Neural correlates of recognition memory of social information in people with schizophrenia
Abstract: Background - Social dysfunction is a hallmark characteristic of schizophrenia. Part of it may stem from an inability to efficiently encode social information into memory and retrieve it later. This study focused on whether patients with schizophrenia show a memory boost for socially relevant information and engage the same neural network as controls when processing social stimuli that were previously encoded into memory. Methods - Patients with schizophrenia and healthy controls performed a social and nonsocial picture recognition memory task while being scanned. We calculated memory performance using d′. Our main analysis focused on brain activity associated with recognition memory of social and nonsocial pictures. Results - Our study included 28 patients with schizophrenia and 26 controls. Healthy controls demonstrated a memory boost for socially relevant information. In contrast, patients with schizophrenia failed to show enhanced recognition sensitivity for social pictures. At the neural level, patients did not engage the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (DMPFC) as much as controls while recognizing social pictures. Limitations Our study did not include direct measures of self-referential processing. All but 3 patients were taking antipsychotic medications, which may have altered both the behavioural performance during the picture recognition memory task and brain activity. Conclusion - Impaired social memory in patients with schizophrenia may be associated with altered DMPFC activity. A reduction of DMPFC activity may reflect less involvement of self-referential processes during memory retrieval. Our functional MRI results contribute to a better mapping of the neural disturbances associated with social memory impairment in patients with schizophrenia and may facilitate the development of innovative treatments, such as transcranial magnetic stimulation.
Title: Gray matter volume drives the brain age gap in schizophrenia: a SHAP study
Abstract: Neuroimaging-based brain age is a biomarker that is generated by machine learning (ML) predictions. The brain age gap (BAG) is typically defined as the difference between the predicted brain age and chronological age. Studies have consistently reported a positive BAG in individuals with schizophrenia (SCZ). However, there is little understanding of which specific factors drive the ML-based brain age predictions, leading to limited biological interpretations of the BAG. We gathered data from three publicly available databases - COBRE, MCIC, and UCLA - and an additional dataset (TOPSY) of early-stage schizophrenia (82.5% untreated first-episode sample) and calculated brain age with pre-trained gradient-boosted trees. Then, we applied SHapley Additive Explanations (SHAP) to identify which brain features influence brain age predictions. We investigated the interaction between the SHAP score for each feature and group as a function of the BAG. These analyses identified total gray matter volume (group × SHAP interaction term β = 1.71 [0.53; 3.23]; pcorr < 0.03) as the feature that influences the BAG observed in SCZ among the brain features that are most predictive of brain age. Other brain features also presented differences in SHAP values between SCZ and HC, but they were not significantly associated with the BAG. We compared the findings with a non-psychotic depression dataset (CAN-BIND), where the interaction was not significant. This study has important implications for the understanding of brain age prediction models and the BAG in SCZ and, potentially, in other psychiatric disorders.
Title: The Processing of Semantic Complexity and Cospeech Gestures in Schizophrenia: A Naturalistic, Multimodal fMRI Study
Abstract: Schizophrenia is marked by aberrant processing of complex speech and gesture, which may contribute functionally to its impaired social communication. To date, extant neuroscientific studies of schizophrenia have largely investigated dysfunctional speech and gesture in isolation, and no prior research has examined how the two communicative channels may interact in more natural contexts. Here, we tested if patients with schizophrenia show aberrant neural processing of semantically complex story segments, and if speech-associated gestures (co-speech gestures) might modulate this effect. In a functional MRI study, we presented to 34 participants (16 patients and 18 matched-controls) an ecologically-valid retelling of a continuous story, performed via speech and spontaneous gestures. We split the entire story into ten-word segments, and measured the semantic complexity for each segment with idea density, a linguistic measure that is commonly used clinically to evaluate aberrant language dysfunction at the semantic level. Per segment, the presence of numbers of gestures varied (n = 0, 1, +2). Our results suggest that, in comparison to controls, patients showed reduced activation for more complex segments in the bilateral middle frontal and inferior parietal regions. Importantly, this neural aberrance was normalized in segments presented with gestures. Thus, for the first time with a naturalistic multimodal stimulation paradigm, we show that gestures reduced group differences when processing a natural story, probably by facilitating the processing of semantically complex segments of the story in schizophrenia.
Keywords: idea density, gesture, naturalistic stimulation, schizophrenia, semantic processing, multimodal
Title: Metastability as a candidate neuromechanistic biomarker of schizophrenia pathology
Abstract: The disconnection hypothesis of schizophrenia proposes that symptoms of the disorder arise as a result of aberrant functional integration between segregated areas of the brain. The concept of metastability characterizes the coexistence of competing tendencies for functional integration and functional segregation in the brain, and is therefore well suited for the study of schizophrenia. In this study, we investigate metastability as a candidate neuromechanistic biomarker of schizophrenia pathology, including a demonstration of reliability and face validity. Group-level discrimination, individual-level classification, pathophysiological relevance, and explanatory power were assessed using two independent case-control studies of schizophrenia, the Human Connectome Project Early Psychosis (HCPEP) study (controls n = 53, non-affective psychosis n = 82) and the Cobre study (controls n = 71, cases n = 59). In this work we extend Leading Eigenvector Dynamic Analysis (LEiDA) to capture specific features of dynamic functional connectivity and then implement a novel approach to estimate metastability. We used non-parametric testing to evaluate group-level differences and a naïve Bayes classifier to discriminate cases from controls. Our results show that our new approach is capable of discriminating cases from controls with elevated effect sizes relative to published literature, reflected in an up to 76% area under the curve (AUC) in out-of-sample classification analyses. Additionally, our new metric showed explanatory power of between 81–92% for measures of integration and segregation. Furthermore, our analyses demonstrated that patients with early psychosis exhibit intermittent disconnectivity of subcortical regions with frontal cortex and cerebellar regions, introducing new insights about the mechanistic bases of these conditions. Overall, these findings demonstrate reliability and face validity of metastability as a candidate neuromechanistic biomarker of schizophrenia pathology.
Title: Neural responses to dynamic multimodal stimuli and pathology-specific impairments of social cognition in schizophrenia and depression
Abstract: Background - Individuals with schizophrenia and people with depression both show abnormal behavioural and neural responses when perceiving and responding to emotional stimuli, but pathology-specific differences and commonalities remain mostly unclear. Aims - To directly compare empathic responses to dynamic multimodal emotional stimuli in a group with schizophrenia and a group with depression, and to investigate their neural correlates using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Method - The schizophrenia group (n = 20), the depression group (n = 24) and a control group (n = 24) were presented with portrait-shot video clips expressing emotion through three possible communication channels: facial expression, prosody and content. Participants rated their own and the actor's emotional state as an index of empathy. Results - Although no group differences were found in empathy ratings, characteristic differences emerged in the fMRI activation patterns. The schizophrenia group demonstrated aberrant activation patterns during the neutral speech content condition in regions implicated in multimodal integration and formation of semantic constructs. Those in the depression group were most affected during conditions with trimodal emotional and trimodal neutral stimuli, in key regions of the mentalising network. Conclusions - Our findings reveal characteristic differences in patients with schizophrenia compared with those with depression in their cortical responses to dynamic affective stimuli. These differences indicate that impairments in responding to emotional stimuli may be caused by pathology-specific problems in social cognition.
Title: Neurobiological Divergence of the Positive and Negative Schizophrenia Subtypes Identified on a New Factor Structure of Psychopathology Using Non-negative Factorization: An International Machine Learning Study
Abstract: Background - Disentangling psychopathological heterogeneity in schizophrenia is challenging, and previous results remain inconclusive. We employed advanced machine learning to identify a stable and generalizable factorization of the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale and used it to identify psychopathological subtypes as well as their neurobiological differentiations. Methods - Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale data from the Pharmacotherapy Monitoring and Outcome Survey cohort (1545 patients; 586 followed up after 1.35 ± 0.70 years) were used for learning the factor structure by an orthonormal projective non-negative factorization. An international sample, pooled from 9 medical centers across Europe, the United States, and Asia (490 patients), was used for validation. Patients were clustered into psychopathological subtypes based on the identified factor structure, and the neurobiological divergence between the subtypes was assessed by classification analysis on functional magnetic resonance imaging connectivity patterns. Results - A 4-factor structure representing negative, positive, affective, and cognitive symptoms was identified as the most stable and generalizable representation of psychopathology. It showed higher internal consistency than the original Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale subscales and previously proposed factor models. Based on this representation, the positive–negative dichotomy was confirmed as the (only) robust psychopathological subtypes, and these subtypes were longitudinally stable in about 80% of the repeatedly assessed patients. Finally, the individual subtype could be predicted with good accuracy from functional connectivity profiles of the ventromedial frontal cortex, temporoparietal junction, and precuneus. Conclusions - Machine learning applied to multisite data with cross-validation yielded a factorization generalizable across populations and medical systems. Together with subtyping and the demonstrated ability to predict subtype membership from neuroimaging data, this work further disentangles the heterogeneity in schizophrenia.
Title: A systematic examination of brain volumetric abnormalities in recent-onset schizophrenia using voxel-based, surface-based and region-of-interest-based morphometric analyses
Abstract: Background - Brain morphometric abnormalities in schizophrenia have been extensively reported in the literature. Whole-brain volumetric reductions are almost universally reported by most studies irrespective of the characteristics of the samples studied (e.g., chronic/recent-onset; medicated/neuroleptic-naïve etc.). However, the same cannot be said of the reported regional morphometric abnormalities in schizophrenia. While certain regional morphometric abnormalities are more frequently reported than others, there are no such abnormalities that are universally reported across studies. Variability of socio-demographic and clinical characteristics across study samples as well as technical and methodological issues related to acquisition and analyses of brain structural images may contribute to inconsistency of brain morphometric findings in schizophrenia. The objective of the present study therefore was to systematically examine brain morphometry in patients with recent-onset schizophrenia to find out if there are significant whole-brain or regional volumetric differences detectable at the appropriate significance threshold, after attempting to control for various confounding factors that could impact brain volumes. Methods - Structural magnetic resonance images of 90 subjects (schizophrenia = 45; healthy subjects = 45) were acquired using a 3 Tesla magnet. Morphometric analyses were carried out following standard analyses pipelines of three most commonly used strategies, viz., whole-brain voxel-based morphometry, whole-brain surface-based morphometry, and between-group comparisons of regional volumes generated by automated segmentation and parcellation. Results - In our sample of patients having recent-onset schizophrenia with limited neuroleptic exposure, there were no significant whole brain or regional brain morphometric abnormalities noted at the appropriate statistical significance thresholds with or without including age, gender and intracranial volume or total brain volume in the statistical analyses. Conclusions - In the background of the conflicting findings in the literature, our findings indicate that brain morphometric abnormalities may not be directly related to the schizophrenia phenotype. Analysis of the reasons for the inconsistent results across studies as well as consideration of alternate sources of variability of brain morphology in schizophrenia such as epistatic and epigenetic mechanisms could perhaps advance our understanding of structural brain alterations in schizophrenia.
Title: Brain Response Correlates of Decisional Capacity in Schizophrenia
Abstract: The capacity of schizophrenia patients to make decisions regarding research consent relates to neurocognition, but the exact nature of the relationship is unclear. The authors examined the correlation of scores on the MacArthur Competence Assessment Tool for Clinical Research with functional magnetic resonance imaging brain response during a verbal learning task. Understanding of a consent form correlated with activation of the right hippocampus during verbal learning and with brain response in a large area that included the bilateral parahippocampus, cerebellum, and thalamus. Reasoning scores were not significantly related to brain activation. Understanding deficits during informed consent relates to particular brain abnormalities among schizophrenia patients.
}

Executive Tasks: 
- Act as the Chief Editor. First take all the text of the provided Writing Samples and reflect on it. 
- Act as a Academic Researcher and First Author. Write a [Graduate Research Plan Statement] of Yahriel Salinas-Reyes for the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program.
- First give me the outline, which consists of a headline, a teaser, and several subheadings.
- Now write five different subheadings.
- Add 5 keywords for each subheading.
[Output]
- Develop the complete the writing, which is a [Graduate Research Plan Statement] of Yahriel Salinas-Reyes for the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program.
- According to the provided Guidelines and Formatting for the [Graduate Research Plan Statement], make edits to the writing.
- Rewrite the writing and expanded on the edited version of the [Graduate Research Plan Statement] of Yahriel Salinas-Reyes for the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program.
- Give me the final version of the [Graduate Research Plan Statement].
[Output]
------------------------------------
Extra Writing Samples: 
{
[Graduate Research Plan Statement for the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program]
Graduate Research Plan Statement Headline: Deciphering the Genetic and Molecular Secrets of Grapes for Mental Health Advancements
Teaser: This research project aims to unlock the hidden potential of grapes as a source of natural antidepressants and investigates the complex landscape of schizophrenia. It leverages advanced techniques in molecular biology, biotechnology, and neuroimaging to illuminate the genetic and molecular foundations governing the synthesis of antioxidants in grapes and understand the complexities of neuroplasticity in the context of schizophrenia.
I. Decoding the Molecular Language of Grapes Keywords: Genetic Mechanisms, Molecular Secrets, Antioxidant Synthesis, Natural Antidepressants, Molecular Biology
Grapes, beyond their culinary and viticultural significance, hold a hidden molecular language that could revolutionize our understanding of natural antidepressants. This segment of the research endeavors to decode the genetic and molecular mechanisms responsible for the synthesis of antioxidants in grapes. With a focus on the molecular biology of this process, we aim to pinpoint the specific compounds within grapes that have the potential to serve as natural antidepressants. By isolating and characterizing these compounds, we intend to uncover their mechanisms of action within the brain and, in doing so, seek to identify practical applications for the treatment of mental health disorders.
II. Beyond Winemaking: Exploring Yeast, Fermentation, and Mental Health Keywords: Wine Yeast, Fermentation Process, Biochemistry, Antioxidant Compounds, Psychiatric Interventions
This section of the research extends beyond the grape itself and explores the role of yeast in the fermentation process, a crucial aspect of winemaking. It is known that yeast influences the composition of compounds within grapes. Recent scientific evidence suggests that certain molecular compounds within grapes act as natural antidepressants. Yet, there has been limited initiative to utilize these antioxidant agents in psychiatric interventions. Utilizing advanced techniques in biochemistry, we aim to uncover the role of yeast and fermentation in influencing the composition of these antioxidant compounds, with the ultimate goal of harnessing their potential for the treatment of mental health disorders.
III. Unraveling the Enigma of Schizophrenia Keywords: Schizophrenia Research, Neurobiological Anomalies, Cognitive Impairments, Brain Dysfunctions, Mental Health
Schizophrenia, a complex and debilitating mental disorder, is characterized by a range of neurobiological anomalies. This section delves into the enigma of schizophrenia, with a focus on exploring the neurobiological aspects of the disorder. It seeks to unravel the brain dysfunctions and structural anomalies associated with schizophrenia and understand the cognitive impairments and emotional dysregulation in affected individuals. By gaining insights into the neurobiological basis of schizophrenia, we aim to advance our understanding of this chronic condition and, in the process, contribute to the development of more effective treatments and interventions.
IV. Harnessing Neuroplasticity: From Theory to Therapeutic Insights Keywords: Neuroplasticity, Cognitive Remediation, Functional Improvements, Mental Health Disorders, Psychiatric Treatments
Neuroplasticity, the brain's remarkable ability to adapt and reorganize itself in response to learning and experiences, is a critical factor in understanding mental health disorders. This segment of the research focuses on harnessing neuroplasticity for therapeutic purposes, particularly in the context of cognitive remediation therapies for individuals with mental health disorders. By employing advanced techniques such as neuroimaging, we aim to investigate the impact of these therapies on cognitive domains like memory, attention, and problem-solving. Our goal is to identify strategies that lead to functional improvements in individuals with mental health disorders and ultimately enhance their quality of life.
V. Nutritional Psychiatry: The Interplay of Food, Biochemistry, and Mental Well-being Keywords: Nutritional Recommendations, Mental Health, Antidepressant Properties, Global Prevalence, Dietary Impact
The interplay between food, biochemistry, and mental well-being is a central theme in this research. Beyond treatment, we explore the potential of nutritional recommendations in promoting mental well-being. By understanding the antidepressant properties of grapes and the role of antioxidants, we aim to provide dietary recommendations that can reduce the global prevalence of mental health disorders. This segment holds the promise of informing dietary guidelines that enhance mental well-being and alleviate the burden of these disorders on individuals and healthcare systems worldwide.
In conclusion, this research represents a multidisciplinary endeavor to unlock the genetic and molecular secrets of grapes, explore their potential as natural antidepressants, and deepen our understanding of schizophrenia and the brain's neuroplasticity. It aspires to provide practical insights and solutions that contribute to the betterment of mental health and well-being on a global scale.
Graduate Research Plan Statement
Headline: Unraveling the Molecular Code of Natural Antidepressants in Grapes
Teaser: In the ever-evolving world of scientific inquiry, certain moments emerge as profound intersections of human ingenuity, scientific inquiry, and the enigmatic wonders of nature. Encapsulated within this project is one such moment. With a central focus on unraveling the molecular code of grapes to find the compounds responsible for its potential natural antidepressant properties, Yahriel Salinas-Reyes aims to foster innovation in treatments for mental health disorders and conditions. Also encompassed in the project is an investigation into the nature of schizophrenia and the complexities of neuroplasticity, in hopes of advancing understanding of the mental illness. The overarching goal is to address the mounting global health crisis presented by mental health disorders, including depression and schizophrenia, which have surged to an unprecedented global health crisis significantly diminishing the quality of life for millions and placing immense pressure on healthcare systems worldwide. At its core, the project is driven by the ambition to conduct a comprehensive molecular analysis of grapes, with a particular emphasis on understanding the genetic and molecular mechanisms governing the synthesis of antioxidants. Grapes have garnered scientific interest due to their potential health benefits and their recent recognition as potential natural antidepressants. Yahriel's unique background in aerospace engineering and micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) equips him with the precision and expertise required to delve into the microscopic realm of chromosomes and molecules—an essential prerequisite for unveiling the genetic secrets grapes hold.
To fulfill the project's objectives, advanced techniques in molecular biology and biotechnology systems engineering will be employed. The primary goal is to pinpoint the specific compounds within grapes responsible for their potential antidepressant properties, involving their isolation and characterization to illuminate their mechanisms of action within the brain. The aim is to identify practical applications for mental health treatment by comprehending the genetic and molecular foundation of natural antidepressant production in grapes. Concurrently, this research adopts a multifaceted approach to unravel the complexities of schizophrenia, a debilitating and chronic mental disorder characterized by symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, and cognitive deficits. At the heart of schizophrenia's enduring enigma are Bleuler's four A's: Alogia, Autism, Ambivalence, and Affect blunting. Extensive research has explored the etiology of schizophrenia, leading to the emergence of three prominent theories: genetic, neurodevelopmental, and neurobiological. Each theory offers a distinct perspective on the origins of this complex disorder, making it challenging to pinpoint a single causative factor. Nonetheless, neurobiological theory has gained prominence due to its comprehensive approach, explaining schizophrenia as a result of abnormal brain dysfunctions or structural anomalies. This theory stands on solid scientific ground, holds promise in guiding treatment strategies, transcends cultural and demographic boundaries, and raises fewer ethical concerns compared to alternative theories. Structural and functional abnormalities in key brain systems (i.e., the prefrontal & medial temporal lobes) play a pivotal role in the manifestation of schizophrenia symptoms that are integral to working memory and declarative memory processes. The disrupted functioning contributes to cognitive impairments and emotional dysregulation in individuals with schizophrenia. In the quest to understand schizophrenia, it is essential to investigate these abnormalities. The proposed research plan acknowledges that understanding the genetic and molecular mechanisms underlying natural antidepressants in grapes not only holds the potential to address the crisis of mental health disorders, but it may also pave the way for innovative therapeutic solutions for schizophrenia. Such a multidisciplinary approach underscores the importance of transcending conventional disciplinary boundaries in scientific inquiry. Moreover, the potential impact of this research reaches far beyond the confines of the laboratory; it has the power to transform lives and improve the overall quality of life for millions of individuals who are grappling with the debilitating impact of depression and schizophrenia. Yahriel Salinas-Reyes envisions a future where the genetic and molecular knowledge of grapes, harnessed through cutting-edge biotechnology and molecular biology, leads to novel treatment options and brings the elusive solutions to depression and schizophrenia one step closer.
Graduate Research Plan Statement 
Headline: Unraveling the Neurobiological Landscape of Schizophrenia: A Multidisciplinary Approach Informed by Numbers, Shapes, and Prediction
Teaser: My proposed research topic, "Unraveling the Neurobiological Landscape of Schizophrenia: A Multidisciplinary Approach Informed by Numbers, Shapes, and Prediction," stands at the forefront of interdisciplinary scientific inquiry.
Intellectual Merit It combines insights from the fields of neuroscience, molecular biology, biotechnology systems engineering, and biomedical data science and informatics to shed light on the complex enigma of schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a challenging and multifaceted disorder, affecting millions worldwide. Current diagnostic and treatment approaches have limitations, and our understanding of the underlying neurobiological mechanisms remains incomplete. This research endeavors to bridge this gap by offering a multidimensional and data-driven approach. Numbers: Data Capture and Monte Carlo Integration - Our journey begins with a commitment to numerical precision. Leveraging state-of-the-art neuroimaging techniques, we will embark on a comprehensive data capture initiative. We will collect neuroanatomical, neurodivergent, and neurophysiological data from diverse populations, constructing a multidimensional dataset that captures the nuanced dimensions of schizophrenia. To navigate the intricacies of this venture, we will employ Monte Carlo Integration techniques, employing probabilistic simulations. This methodological approach will enable us to explore the complex interplay of variables within the neural landscape of schizophrenia, accounting for the stochastic nature of neurobiological phenomena. By merging data-driven insights with probabilistic modeling, we aim to unveil concealed patterns and emergent behaviors that define the neurobiology of schizophrenia. This approach is intellectually meritorious as it represents a novel way of examining schizophrenia. By quantifying the uncertain nature of the disorder and using mathematical rigor to analyze large datasets, we strive to uncover previously unseen connections and causal relationships. Shapes: Mandelbrot Set and Fractal Geometry - In our pursuit of understanding, we delve into the realm of geometric complexity. Schizophrenia, similar to the enigmatic Mandelbrot set, exhibits self-similarity across multiple scales. To explore the recursive patterns inherent in neurobiological representations of schizophrenia, we will apply fractal geometry. Fractal analysis will provide us with a powerful tool for discerning intricate geometries of neural connectivity and unraveling the nonlinear relationships that define the topological architecture of the schizophrenic brain. By merging fractal geometry with neuroimaging data, we aim to unearth novel insights into the spatial organization of neuroanatomical features, shedding light on the fractal nature of neurodivergence. This application of fractal geometry to schizophrenia research adds an intellectually meritorious dimension to our approach. It introduces a new perspective to the field, potentially revealing previously undiscovered patterns and structures within the brain, thereby advancing our understanding of the disorder's neurobiological basis. Prediction: Dimensional/Spectral Analysis to Understand Causality and Correlation - As we navigate the labyrinthine landscape of schizophrenia, our scientific odyssey extends to prediction and understanding causality. Utilizing advanced dimensional and spectral analysis techniques, we aim to disentangle the intricate web of causative factors and correlations that govern the neurobiology of schizophrenia. Dimensional analysis will empower us to identify the critical dimensions exerting profound influence on the emergence and progression of schizophrenic traits. By dissecting the spectral signatures of neural activity within these dimensions, we seek to unveil the underlying dynamics governing causality within the realm of neurodivergence. This approach offers substantial intellectual merit by providing a comprehensive understanding of the complex interactions that underlie schizophrenia. It allows us to explore the multifactorial nature of the disorder, going beyond traditional diagnostic categories and advancing our ability to identify causal factors. Holistic Approach: Impact on Global Public Health - Our multidisciplinary approach transcends traditional psychiatric narratives, aligning with R.D. Laing's existential perspective. This approach values personal, interpretive, and small scale aspects often overlooked. Through the integration of Numbers, Shapes, and Prediction, we aim to illuminate the neurobiological essence of schizophrenia, advancing science, diagnosis, and innovative treatments for global public health. The intellectual merit of this holistic approach is twofold. First, it promotes a more nuanced and comprehensive understanding of schizophrenia by considering its multidimensional and dynamic nature. Second, it opens new avenues for personalized diagnosis and treatment, potentially revolutionizing mental health care. In conclusion, our research on the neurobiological landscape of schizophrenia offers significant intellectual merit by combining data-driven analysis, fractal geometry, and dimensional analysis to unravel the disorder's complexities. This multidisciplinary approach enhances our understanding of schizophrenia and has the potential to inform precision medicine, ultimately advancing global public health. 
Broader Impacts The broader impacts of our research extend beyond the boundaries of scientific discovery to encompass society's well-being and the future of mental health care. This research represents a crucial step toward addressing the global mental health crisis and has the potential to transform the lives of individuals affected by schizophrenia. Transforming Mental Health Care: One of the most immediate broader impacts of our research is the potential for groundbreaking advancements in mental health care. Schizophrenia, depression, and related conditions impose a substantial worldwide health burden. Our multidisciplinary approach offers the possibility of innovative treatments that target the root causes of these disorders. By uncovering the complex neurobiological mechanisms of schizophrenia, we lay the groundwork for the development of personalized interventions. These treatments may offer greater effectiveness and fewer side effects than current approaches, improving the quality of life for those living with mental health conditions. Advancing Precision Medicine: Our research aligns with the principles of precision medicine, which seeks to tailor medical treatments to individual genetic and molecular profiles. This approach has the potential to revolutionize mental health care by providing targeted and effective interventions. It promotes a shift away from one-size-fits-all treatments to personalized solutions that consider each patient's unique neurobiology. The broader impact of advancing precision medicine extends beyond mental health. The principles and methodologies developed through our research may have applications in other areas of medicine and biotechnology. This could lead to more effective and individualized treatments for a wide range of health conditions, benefiting society as a whole. Fostering   and Knowledge Exchange: Collaborations and partnerships are integral to the success of our research. By soliciting the NSF-MERCURY Project Partnership and pursuing a Fulbright-National Geographic Award, we aim to foster international collaboration and share our findings with the global scientific community. This collaboration has the potential to accelerate the pace of discovery and promote knowledge exchange. Through collaborative efforts, we can pool resources, expertise, and diverse perspectives. This not only enhances the intellectual depth of our research but also contributes to the broader impact of fostering a global community of scientists dedicated to unraveling the mysteries of mental health disorders. Promoting Diversity and Inclusion: Our research aligns with the principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion. As a triple citizen of the United States, Mexico, and El Salvador, I bring a unique perspective to my research and am committed to fostering diversity in STEM fields. I believe that diversity of thought, and experience enhances scientific innovation and promotes broader impacts on society. By actively promoting diversity and inclusion in our research endeavors, we contribute to a more equitable scientific community. We aim to create an environment where individuals from diverse backgrounds can thrive, bringing their unique insights to the table and driving scientific innovation forward. In conclusion, our research on the neurobiological landscape of schizophrenia holds the potential for profound and far-reaching broader impacts. By transforming mental health care, advancing precision medicine, fostering collaboration, and promoting diversity and inclusion, our work has the potential to improve the lives of individuals affected by mental health disorders and contribute to the betterment of society as a whole. References: Salinas-Reyes, Y. (2023). Unraveling the Molecular Code of Natural Antidepressants in Grapes. Retrieved from https://github.com/yahriels/yahriels#readme Mandelbrot, B. B. (1982). The Fractal Geometry of Nature. W. H. Freeman. Laing, R. D. (1960). The Divided Self: An Existential Study in Sanity and Madness. Tavistock Publications
}