-Discuss your Graduate Plan and use words like “Dissertation,” “Thesis,” “Intellectual Opportunities,” when describing future plans and in your research plan be very Explicit with how each task it contributes to the overarching goal of the graduate research plan and emphasize why the PhD. Is so important for Yahriel Salinas-Reyes to accomplish this. 
-When writing, walk the reader back in significant place to find ways to remind the reader that it will be part of dissertation,  Ph.D., and overarching goal, such as when discussing my work, my project, when and when it comes to your tasks research initiatives  as a Private researcher or in the public sector.
-Make it clear when discussing intellectual merit that Yahriel’s Intellectual Background is in Aerospace and Aeronautical Engineering or Rocket Scientist/Computational Scientist with a Research and Development Background in: Modern Design of Aerospace and Propulsion Systems, Interfacial Phenomena, Nanotechnology and Materials Science-Engineering, Applied Quantum Mechanics and Nature Physics, Thermodynamic Modeling and Analysis, Signals and Controls Systems Engineering, Expert in Robotics and Electrical Engineering, Computer Science and Software Engineering, Computer and Information Technology Systems, Experimental Systems Engineering, and MEMS.



International collaboration with triple citizenship. 
etc….

Take out Fulbright out of application.

Intellectual merit is how the work fits into the broader field. 
Don’t spend too much personal,
Transition to how you are ready for the field and how you came to be interested in the field. 
Prior research, scientific outreach. 
They wanna know about different perspectives like anthropology.

Don’t walk them through your CV

Structure: Intro, Academic foundation and research experience, build and work in your research,   INtellecutal merit, broader impacts, future plans. 

Don’t make them search for your field and it’s nice to get into your project in the introduction. 
Get to the discipline and find a way to get to the project. 

Ask about:
Narrative concept and between 
Cliché’s to look out for: Missing point of intellectual merit, boring rundown of research
Talk about tenured professor and mentorship, international collab, of your own initiative. 

Slowdown 

FIRST PERSON for everything, 

